+++
title = "Comparative analysis of Gaussian mixture model, logistic regression and random forest for big data classification using map reduce"
date = 2016-12-03
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Rahul Kumar Gupta, Vikas Singh, Rahul Kumar Sevakula, Nishchal Kumar Verma"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = " 2016 11th International Conference on Industrial and Information Systems (ICIIS)"
publication_short = "ICIIS 2016"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "In the era of modern world, big data becomes
major transformation of new technology, The amount of data
generated by mankind is growing every year. To classify such
big data is a challenging task with standard data mining tech-
niques. This paper presents a Map Reduce based algorithm with
Gaussian mixture model(GMM), Logistic regression(LR) and
Random forest classifier(RFC). While, map phase determines
the probabilities and class labels of the test data, the reduce
phase predicts the class labels of test data by aggregating results
from all the mappers. We have analyzed these algorithms on
the basis of test accuracy, run time and number of mappers on
multiple big data sets."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["Random Forest","ML","classification", Gaussian Mixture Model, Logistic Regression, Hadoop, Map Reduce]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8262961"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

